# Reflective Report

## Requirements Collection:
Before the module I had slight experience with using packages and libraries in python but getting used to Pipenv is something I can take out of this module into all my future work in python. When it works, the simplicity of having one file where you can specify what packages you want to download and then creating it an environment only with them in helps to get everything running quickly with conflicting package names and old packages that are difficult to update a thing of the past. It was initially difficult to get accustomed to, but by the end of the module it is second nature, and the true value of it started to show in the group project where it would be very useful when collaborating to make sure that everyone has the correct packages installed, so they are all effectively working on the same page.

## Planning: 
Using MS teams, which I had no previous experience, helped massively in the group project and I definitely plan on using in future group assignments and in my career as it allows for communication between potentially global co workers, it is easy to set up and run, and helped the group to decide what we needed to do, how we were going to structure our code and our git repository. The projects we have had so far unfortunately haven’t really tested our planning abilities much so I don’t know whether there is anything I could improve on

## Implementation:
When coding projects we were advised to use PyCharm which I unfortunately have struggled with getting used to. This is because my IDE of choice is Visual studio code, as it can handle most languages and I am familiar with the shortcuts in it and the layout. This is something I think I should have changed and should do better in future in as PyCharm has a lot of features that would help me now, and in the future. The built in debugger would have saved a lot of time when debugging project 4 as I had to use the terminal within VS Code instead, although the same functionality, it takes much longer and is more difficult to understand what’s going on so for example in projects with larger codebases and more variables I need to keep track of, it would be detrimental to my speed. Also, PyCharm encourages following the pep8 style which is a very helpful set of guidelines to follow to help other people when they are reading and checking my code. I feel that I should have got used to using PyCharm and although it would have been hard to get into initially, it would have been worth it in the long term and in future python projects.

## Testing:
Pytest is a framework that helps to write tests so you can see quickly and efficiently how your code is coming along, as long as the tests are correct. When testing prior to finding out about it, I was following on a similar, code something, figure out the right answer by hand and then test the program to see what answer it gives, but implementing it in code is much better for other people when they pick up my code and try and understand what’s going on in it. I think the interface it gives of tests passed and tests failed is really helpful when working through code just to see how much you have left to do, and also when a test fails, it shows what and where, a very useful thing to have so rather than only knowing that your code failed, you know what made it fail. 

## Repositories and GitLabs:
Before the module I had been using GitHub for a few years but only really used it to track how much I was doing, and to use it essentially as cloud storage to store code on. This module has introduced me to git pipelines, a really good way to test code on a clean build, and furthered my confidence in being able to use git professionally. I know that it is difficult to get into, and a lot of other people struggle with understanding it, but i’m glad I had the experience in it before I started the module otherwise it would all have been a lot more difficult as every single one of the projects relied on it fairly heavily considering there were a also lot of other new concepts to worry about. Personally, I think this is one of the best developments of the module, as I remember this being one of the focuses when designing a new programming section. 




## Personal development
